Hello and welcome back to the course on databases.
Today we're finally kicking off the parts about the different normal forms and today we've got the first
normal form.
Very excited to proceed with this historial.
Let's dive straight into it.
So what is the first thing we're for.
Well let's look at the definition.
A table is in first normal form if first of all it doesn't contain duplicate rows.
And second every cell contains only one value.
So let's have a look at an example.
Q Got an example of a table.
Can you tell me right away if it's in first normal form or not.
Can we say that this is a table.
First Normal Form table or not.
Well the answer is pretty obvious.
This table is not one in F and there's a that's short for first normal form.
And why is it not.
Well because first of all we've got a duplicate row here at the bottom.
Two of those rows are identical.
And second we've got some cells that contain more than one value.
So indeed this is a valid table you could come across the table like this.
But at the same time if the person that creates table wanted to structure in the first normal form then
they wouldn't have these issues that we've outlined with this table.
So the answer to the question is No it doesn't conform.
And the question is now how could we fix this table to make it conform to the first normal form to the
definition to meet that criteria.
And the way to do that is pretty straightforward.
You basically just take remove that duplicate row and then where a person has two phone numbers you
split it out into two rows.
You put that row into two rows and therefore the phone numbers are separated.
And here again this person has two phone numbers and is as you can see we've separated them.
And so now this table doesn't have any duplicate rows and also doesn't have more than one value in each
cell.
So this extension it still counts as part of that phone number because it indeed is part of that phone
number.
So this time it does conform to the first normal form.
So that's pretty simple isn't it.
Very very straightforward.
Well the interesting part about normal forms of tables.
First of all why do we need this normal form why is it important to understand why a table isn't normal
for first animal form or not.
Well because if you know in advance that a tables in first unnormal form you will be sure that there
is no duplicate rows and you will be sure that every cell has only one value.
Right so you won't be worried about those things and that's why it's important to understand when you
deal with a table what what kind of design does it have what kind of scientists this whole database
have that specific table.
And just by knowing that isn't one enough.
Are you confident that there won't be duplicates there won't be more than one value and you can proceed
with your analysis so it gives you information like a standard does this table conform to the standard
or not in this case.
We've made a table that does.
And so the interesting thing about normal forms is that the first form is very easy it's very simple
to understand.
Whereas from there it just gets the difficulty skyrockets so normal form 2 and 3 are will take us quite
some effort to get through we'll definitely get through them.
But Ill will be a challenge to understand them and to remember them and that's why right now I wanted
to propose to you that we can come up with four actually we use a mnemonic.
So there's a mnemonic or it's just like a phrase that is used to remember the different normal forms.
So let's have a look at it and then I'll explain in more detail why we're doing.
All right so here's a mnemonic.
And let's quickly read through it.
It says that every non-prime attribute must provide a fact about the key the whole key and nothing but
the key.
Right.
So first of all how did you remember this not going to detail why we need to remember it but the first
thing we need to do is remember it and how do we do that.
Well whenever you are kind of feeling lost in the world of normalization of databases and the normal
forms then just remember me explaining how in American courts they put their hand up and they spece
they say that they pledge to say the truth the whole truth and nothing but the truth.
So you see here the truth the whole truth and nothing but the truth.
Right.
So that's exactly where this Menomonie came from is basically copied from there.
Just so that it's easier to remember.
And there we go now.
Hopefully that's ingrained in your mind forever.
And now let's understand why this is actually helpful to us.
Well if you look at the three different parts about the key right that is associated with the first
normal form.
The whole key is associated with second normal form and nothing but the key is associate third normal
form.
So basically these hints will help you at any point in time recover in your mind.
The criteria for each one of these normal forms.
That's why this isn't what it is useful.
So let's go ahead and try it out on the personal form because we've just done the first and will form
in this trial.
So the concept here is that every non-prime attribute must provide a fact about the key.
And while for the other parts so for the second or from the third point on before this part is important.
Right so every non-prime attribute must and then this other phrase for the first one will form.
It's a bit it's a bit less strict like that for the first and form the most important part here is just
the words about the key.
So that's the most important part.
And basically what that implies.
This sentence that something has to happen something something about the key is implies that there has
to be a key right.
It can in your table there is a key.
And let's look at our definition of a first animal form.
So here.
Well the every cell contains only one value.
Actually Doesn't the mnemonic doesn't help you remember that so you'll have to remember that on your
own.
But basically does that your table doesn't contain duplicate rows.
Right.
Is exactly the same as saying that.
Or is it comes out of saying that the table has a key.
Right so if a table has duplicate rows then it cannot have a key right it cannot have any candidate
keys because by definition a candidate key helps you identify rows uniquely.
Right so if you have a candidate key by that candidate key you should be able to identify any role uniquely
But if you have duplicate rows in your table so basically if your table doesn't conform to the one enough
to this condition then you won't have a key.
And that means that this sentence won't be true.
So that's how this mnemonic will help you remember the first normal form.
I know it's a bit it's a bit not as straightforward at this stage.
No.
It might be a bit of vague right now but just remember the phrase remember them mnemonic and remember
that this part is one enough.
And basically it says that it's talking about.
The key is talking about a key and that's means that there has to be a key and that key can only exist
if there are no duplicate rows and that will help you remember that.
That's what the one in f is about that it doesn't contain Black Rose and also just You'll have to add
this on on your own that every cell contains only one value.
So there we go.
That's what the first animal form is and that's the mnemonic that will help us throughout this rest
of the section and I hope you enjoyed today's tutorial and I'll look for your next one.
Until then happy unlet.